All righty, so we had somebody really
nice added error messages for us.
And so,
if you take a look at the code here,
we've got our errors being displayed if
somebody submits one of these in error.
So, if you click on that, then it
will say it must be greater than 0,
please enter a valid date.
But combining this with, and
that all works fine, and
in fact even with optimistic UI, if we
do give it something greater than 0 and
all this, everything is still working and
when the revalidation is finished,
we're resetting all properly.
The one thing that we're missing
right now is when we submit,
we will display the error, but
it would be really nice if we focus
the input that has the error so
the user can fix that.
And also,
we are actually resetting the form so
all the other work that they did
that was correct is all gone.
We don't wanna reset the form
if there are errors, and so
that is what we're going to be doing.
So we're gonna have a couple if statements
and this will end up in the else case.
So if there's an error on the amount, so
we've got actually let's bring in
the error as a dependency array element.
We will say error, and
actually it's gonna be errors,
I should have had Dan do that for
me, errors.amount.
And actually,
errors could be undefined as well, so
if there's errors.amount, then we're
going to focus on the amount element.
And I believe the easiest way to do
that is actually to access it through
the form ref.
If you want to you can make a ref for
every input,
but the form ref, actually, we have
it typed as a deposit form element,
which includes the form elements for all
the forms stuff that we've got in here.
So that should make it nice and easy.
So we'll say,
formRef.current.elements.amount.
And if that exists, cuz it's possible
it doesn't, we'll say focus.
So if there's an error for the amount,
then we'll focus on the amount.
Otherwise, if there's an error for
the deposit date,
then we'll do the same oops,
for the deposit date.
Sweet.
And if there is no error,
then we wanna focus,
or then we want to get rid of or
reset the form.
And we also want to focus on the amount,
just so
that they can enter in these
values really quickly.
So we come back over here,
let's not throttle, so
we can load it fast and then throttle.
So then, we say skip the amount,
set our date, and set something there.
This request is going to happen,
revalidation will occur, and
then we focus on the element that
has the error, so that's nice.
We can fill this in, and
we get that process again, and
when revalidation is complete,
then we focus back into the amount.
So the one case where we're thinking,
hey, hold on,
what if the user has actually already
started to fill in the new amount?
So like they're moving
fast within our reset,
then we probably don't wanna reset
the work that they're doing.
So the one case where we actually
wanna do one more check before
we will focus on the amount,
and before we reset.
So this is gonna actually be another
else if, and in this case, we want to
check is the currently focused element the
same as it was when this was submitted.
So is it the created element?
I'm actually gonna need to reference cuz
I feel like I have a better way of doing
this than I'm thinking of right now, and
I wanna make sure I do it the same way.
This invoice ID.
So sorry, I am cheating.
Yeah, intent, that's right.
Okay, So
the forms actually have a, well, so
the submit button on our
form has a name and a value,
and the name of this submit
button is the intent.
So we want to say is the currently
active element the submit button.
If it is, then we're good to reset
because they haven't moved anywhere,
they're still sitting
on that submit button.
If they've moved, and then they
probably are off doing something else,
we do not want to reset this for them.
So we'll say, if the document current
element nope, not current script,
current element, or activeElement,
that's right, is not or
is equal to
the formRef.current.elements.intent.
So if it's that submit button,
then we're good to focus on the amount and
reset the form.
And that is it,
that gives us a nicer user experience for
users who want to be
quick about everything.
Yeah, Mark.
>> When doing optimistic UI, is it
the best user experience to wait until
the response comes back in
order to reset the form?
Won't the user be confused if they
can see a new record posted, but
the form still has the last entry?
Any suggestions how to
deal with this scenario,
maybe the form field should be disabled?
>> Yeah, that's that's a good question.
This is where computer programming turns
into an art, I think, where you have to,
or not the programming aspect,
but the user experience aspect.
Because you have to kind of decide
what are the trade-offs that you want.
You might have noticed in the remix
to do MVC, I did not wait for
the request to be finished before
resetting the field or the input.
I just reset it right away and
just assume everything's going to work.
We could do that ourselves as well.
You could actually use this as a reference
implementation for how to accomplish that.
What's actually happening under
the hood is this input right here is
its own component.
And when I create a new one, I actually
leave that component there as hidden and
make a brand new one.
And so, every single time you submit one,
two, three, we've got three inputs,
two of which are hidden while
those submissions are finished.
And so, if one of them ends up being
an error, then I actually just
bring that field back to be visible,
so I can show the error.
And then that's how you can actually
just work through them all.
So there are actually some
pretty interesting, and
it's not all that complicated actually.
So there are pretty interesting
things that you can do to make sure,
because the biggest challenge is
that if your optimism is misplaced,
you got to bring everything back
to the state at the time that
the user submitted it because
otherwise they lose a bunch of work.
And so by going that route
of let's just hide this and
then we'll bring it back, you can
actually preserve all of that state.
Ends up being quite simple.
So that's the way I implemented it for
this.
If we were to instantly reset this
as soon as the request was made, and
then there's an error, we just have
to hold that state somewhere so
that when the error shows up, we've got
to restore all of their previous stuff.
Which is where optimistic UI
becomes a little bit tricky, and
so there are a couple of tricks
that I show in that example
that you can use to make
that a little easier.
But this is a really,
really great first experience for
an optimistic UI that you could build
that is pretty low effort, high reward.
And then you can layer on top of that
additional levels of complexity to make
that easier, yeah.
>> If you had a really long form where
you wanted to save progress as a user is
filling it out without
submitting it necessarily,
how do you do that right next?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
So saving progress in a form, or
I actually saw another question somebody
asked in the chat now I remember,
asking about like a multistep forms,
stuff like that.
So it depends kind of on how you want
to say that you could, of course,
save this to local storage if you want to.
Maybe not the most secure thing to do, but
if that is not a concern,
then that's an option.
So in remix, the best way to do this
would probably be to use a cookie because
then you can store the users,
all the users' fields in that.
It can be persisted even if they
close the tab and everything.
It can be secure, so
it's HTTPS only and all that.
And then,
through some of the other exercises,
we'll see doing imperative fetching, so
you could actually just on an interval
save stuff or maybe on blur save stuff.
As far as a wizard, you could also
do that in a cookie, or you can,
of course,
save this in just your local state.
So if you don't care about
if the user closes this,
I don't care to that or anything,
then you could put it in
a context provider of your
own making above the form.
And then as the user blurs the inputs or
changes or whatever, you just
update that and then just delete it when
the user submits the form, potentially.
>> Can you explain
the document.activeElement ===
formRefl.elements.intent a bit again?
>> Yes, so the document, activeElement,
is a read only property of the browser
that will tell you whatever element
currently has focused on the page.
The formRef is referring to our form.
This is the current value of that ref,
which will always be the same, but
that's just the way that refs work.
In the elements' property on that form,
DOM node is all of the elements of
the form that are keyed by their name.
And so
the name of our submit button is intent.
we access the submit button by intent.
So what this statement is saying is if
the document active element is triple, or
what this expression is saying I should
say, the active element is triple equal to
the submit button, that's what
we're trying to establish here.
So if the user is still
on the submit button,
then we can focus the amount and reset.
If they're somewhere else,
then we don't want to delete their work.
And again, this is only one
way to approach this problem.
In my to-do MVC, I reset everything and
just hide stuff and
bring it back if we need to,
if the user needs to fix an error.
And if I were to go a little further
on the optimistic UI experience,
with this, I would probably take that
same approach with this as well, yeah.
>> Are form libraries like React
hooks incompatible then with Remix?
>> If the form library is
compatible with the web,
then it will be compatible with Remix.
Unfortunately, there are a number
of libraries that I will not name.
I will name one,
Ant Design is a very popular library.
I've had trouble with that library for
years because I created a testing
library which focused very heavily on
querying by accessibility and stuff.
And Ant Design is just,
maybe it's better now, but for
a long time I just get a lot
of issues of people saying,
I can't test this because I can't
query the way that you show.
Because they just didn't label
their inputs properly, and
they didn't render inputs.
And so, yeah, that library.
And actually I've seen some people have
trouble with that particular library with
Remix because they don't use the web.
And so you're gonna have trouble with
anything that doesn't use the web, but
I believe that React hook
form does just render inputs,
or at least you are the one who's
rendering, so you can render the inputs.
And even if you're not
the one rendering the inputs,
if you have some way to be notified
of what that state value is,
so like on select or on change or
something like that,
then you can actually work around
that by adding an input hidden
with the name of whatever and
value is , whatever.
So, now you're kinda using their library,
but
then sticking the value into the form, and
so that is literally just a workaround.
That's not what you want to do.
You could also say type it in,
most people do that.
I think React has some optimizations
if you use the hidden prop though.
So something to look into.
But yeah, that would be one way to
work around that, but short answer to
the question is, yes, I believe that
that particular library is compatible.